.TH XREF_FUNCTION_USAGE 1 "June 2024" "1.0" "Function cross-reference tool"
.SH NAME
xref_function_usage \- cross-reference function usage in a codebase
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xref_function_usage.sh
\-f file
[\-p path]
[\-u]
[\-x exclude-path ...]
[\-X exclude-name ...]
[\-h]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This script extracts all function definitions from a file, then scans a directory
tree for all usages of those functions.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f file
Source file to extract functions from (required).
.TP
.B \-p path
Directory to scan for usages (default: .).
.TP
.B \-u
Only print functions that are UNUSED.
.TP
.B \-x exclude-path
Exclude all files and folders whose path starts with this value.
Can be repeated. Accepts absolute or relative paths.
.TP
.B \-X exclude-name
Exclude all files or directories whose name matches this string.
Wildcards supported, e.g. '*.min.js', 'old*', 'node_modules'.
.TP
.B \-h
Show help and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B
  xref_function_usage.sh -f mylib.php
.P
Scan the current tree for all usages of functions defined in mylib.php.
.P
.B
  xref_function_usage.sh -f mylib.php -p ./src -X old -X .git
.P
Scan only ./src, skipping all 'old' or '.git' folders everywhere.
.P
.B
  xref_function_usage.sh -f foo.js -x ./legacy -x /tmp/bar
.P
Exclude any path starting with ./legacy or /tmp/bar.
.P
.B
  xref_function_usage.sh -f lib.py -u
.P
Show only unused functions.

.SH NOTES
- Supports PHP, JavaScript, Python, C (basic regex-based detection).
- Output lines are trimmed for terminal display.
- Exclusion with -X applies by name, -x by path.
.SH AUTHOR
OpenAI Code GPT, tweaked by you.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR grep (1),
.BR find (1)

