.TH CONNECT_SQLITE.SH 1 "June 2025" "1.0" "SQLite Query Helper"
.SH NAME
connect_sqlite.sh \- Friendly Bash wrapper for SQLite queries and database inspection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B connect_sqlite.sh
[\fISQL statement or meta-command\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B connect_sqlite.sh
is a command-line utility to run SQL queries and SQLite meta-commands, and provides helpful shortcuts for schema inspection and database management. If no arguments are given, it launches the interactive SQLite shell.

It adds semicolons to SQL statements when needed, supports describe helpers for quick schema introspection, and displays usage help.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Show basic usage help.

.TP
.B \-help
Show detailed usage help and command examples.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all tables:
.B
connect_sqlite.sh .tables
.TP
Run a SQL query:
.B
connect_sqlite.sh "SELECT * FROM mytable"
.TP
Show table structure:
.B
connect_sqlite.sh describe .table mytable
.TP
Show indexes for a table:
.B
connect_sqlite.sh describe .indexes mytable
.TP
Show foreign keys for a table:
.B
connect_sqlite.sh describe .fkeys mytable
.TP
Show database schema version:
.B
connect_sqlite.sh describe .schema_version
.TP
Run an integrity check:
.B
connect_sqlite.sh describe .integrity_check
.TP
Show help:
.B
connect_sqlite.sh -h
.TP
Enter interactive SQLite shell (no arguments):
.B
connect_sqlite.sh

.SH "DESCRIBE HELPERS"
The
.B describe
shortcuts provide convenient ways to inspect table structure and database metadata:
.TP
.B describe .table TABLENAME
Show columns and types for TABLENAME.
.TP
.B describe .indexes TABLENAME
Show indexes for TABLENAME.
.TP
.B describe .fkeys TABLENAME
Show foreign key constraints for TABLENAME.
.TP
.B describe .schema_version
Show the database schema version.
.TP
.B describe .integrity_check
Run the SQLite integrity check.

.SH FILES
The script expects a database file path (e.g., \fB../data/f1db.db\fR) to be set in its configuration or within the script.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBRick Ruggiero\fR <eaxiom.au@gmail.com>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sqlite3 (1)

